[rock cracking]
[Wheeljack] Boom!
Engines have been recalibrated.
Let's give this sucker a whirl.
But not a literal whirl.
Wait a damn cycle, Wheeljack!
If we have made
even the slightest miscalculation--
Ah, relax, Ratchet.
We've got enough power in the engines
to blow through a moon.
That is exactly why I will not relax.
You could destroy this ship.
I could destroy this ship
a thousand different ways,
but at least this will get us
out of the mountain.
Ratchet has a point.
The Maximal ship
was damaged beyond repair.
If we have any hope
of getting off this planet,
it's with the careful extraction
of the Ark.
Listen to your super genius.
Optimus has the Allspark.
We need to get out of this rock ASAP.
-Well, if you insist.
-[Rhinox] Wait!
-[Ratchet] No!
-[beeping]
[increasing whir]
[rumbling]
[rocks crash]
[Ratchet] The ship's going to be crushed!
[grunts] Abort! Abort!
[Rhinox grunts]
The computer's not responding.
[grunts] Come on.
Come on!
[rumbling]
[decreasing whir]
-[growls softly]
-[Teletraan mutters indistinctly]
[Rhinox sighs]
-Teletraan, what is going on with you?
[theme music plays]
-[music ends]
-[footsteps approaching]
[Cheetor] Big Bot!
[roars] Yeah!
You did it!
[chuckling] You saved the Allspark!
Hmm. Unfortunately, not yet.
[Primal] What's wrong with it?
-[Prime] It… is dying.
-[Allspark whirs faintly]
Huh? How could the ultimate
life source be dying?
I believe the Allspark shares
a symbiotic relationship with Cybertron.
One… hmm,
cannot survive without the other.
Time is of the essence.
We must return to Cybertron immediately!
-[shot fires]
-[Prime grunts]
The Allspark will go nowhere
with the likes of you!
Hand it over, Prime.
[Prime] I will not, Megatron!
[Megatron growling]
Then I will build my new world
over your ashes!
[Prime] You cannot build anything
if the Allspark is dead.
It is dying because of us.
[sighs]
We have wasted too much time already.
Yield now so that we may save our home.
What are you going to do now,
you old fool?
He seems so small now.
[Blackarachnia]
Losing everything has its toll.
-He'll be desperate now, dangerous.
-[Megatron growls]
We'll need an advantage.
What are you doing over there?
My synthetic webbing is very useful.
It can even double as circuitry.
With a competent hand,
one can hack almost anything.
The Golden Disk?
But how?
[Blackarachnia] Oh, the usual.
I took it when no one was looking.
And this is Megatron's Energon,
necessary for falsifying his identity.
His Energon?
[mutters] Did-- Did you…
Did you take that
while he was attacking me?
Is that why you…
you tricked me into fighting?
Calm down.
You lived, didn't you?
-[growls]
-[weapon cocks]
-[shot fires]
-[Blackarachnia yells]
[Starscream grunts]
[jets blast]
Starscream!
[jets whoosh]
[Starscream grunts]
[grunts] Play, dammit!
Your secrets are mine, you piece of scrap!
[whirring]
[Megatron on tape]
I dealt him the killing blow.
Finally, huh, Prime is dead by my hand.
And I…
I am not far behind.
If only I could go back,
know then… what I know now.
If we could have just worked together,
we could…
Wh…
What is that? Wh…
[agitated grunts]
[screams in agony]
[Unicron] Megatron,
at last we meet.
[Megatron on tape] Who… What are you?
[Unicron] Silence!
Your life belongs to me now.
[Megatron] My life is my own.
[wails] No.
No, please!
Please, stop! I…
I will obey!
[Unicron]
Your current body will not survive.
I remake you anew.
[sighing] Oh…
Megatron… is… Galvatron?
Ha!
Oh, Megatron,
you were born a slave
and you will die a slave.
-[Unicron] Starscream…
-[Starscream gasps]
-[gasps]
-[Unicron] Starscream…
I know you're there.
I know everything.
Now, listen carefully.
You want to know the future? Fine.
I have heard the legends
of Air Commander Starscream.
-[transforms]
-I heard you were a coward!
An arrogant, backstabbing,
incompetent coward.
You will never rule.
You will never…
Uh… What?
What is it? What's wrong?
Uh-uh, we have to go… right now.
-[doors open]
-[Bumblebee gasps] Optimus!
Status report.
The science team's working
to get us out of the mountain,
but there's something wrong
with Teletraan.
-We're running diagnostics, but--
-We are out of time.
[sighs] The Allspark… is dying.
[all gasp softly]
[Prime] Wheeljack,
switch all controls to manual,
and do whatever is necessary
to get us off this planet.
Now!
[all pant]
-[Bumblebee] Hmm?
-[comms beeping]
-[footsteps approaching]
-I got your message.
-What do you want?
-[Starscream murmurs nervously]
[grumbling anxiously]
I-- I know how this looks. I…
[chuckles] I know. I…
I know, I know, but please!
After everything we've been through,
we a-- as a species,
all this war, all this death…
what if… [bumbling]
What if it was all by design?
-What's wrong with him?
-[Blackarachnia] I don't know.
He's been acting crazy
ever since he listened to that Disk.
[growling] I'm not crazy!
[grumbles] Oh. We don't have much time!
-He can see us.
-[Bumblebee grunts]
-Who?
-The one who has done this to us.
[pants] Please.
I'm not…
I'm not strong enough.
He knows that.
But you…
You and the Autobots!
[grunts] The future belongs
in more capable hands.
-No!
-[shards shatter]
[gasps and murmurs]
[Bumblebee]
The future's already here, Starscream.
-We have to face it head-on.
-[resounding rumble]
[jets whooshing]
[Wheeljack grunting]
-[Prime] Wheeljack?
-[Wheeljack grunts] It wasn't me!
Whoa.
It's…
the Nemesis.
Ah! Move! We need cover or we're dead!
[growls] Fire again!
Uh! Optimus!
[Prime grunts] Shields!
[Rhinox] At 60%!
[grunts] But they won't hold much longer!
Open a hailing frequency.
Megatron! Stop this madness!
The Allspark--
Will survive the bombardment.
But you…
I will bury you on this planet.
Goodbye, old friend.
Fire!
Uh! We need to evacuate! The shuttles!
The Nemesis will blast them
out of the sky.
I'll take a strike team
and we'll distract the cons
long enough for you to escape.
[Prime grunts]
At what cost, Primal?
It is suicide.
I am not willing to--
But I am.
[ship rattles]
[Blackarachnia] I've got a better idea.
Get me on that ship.
I can sabotage their weapons
and we all get to live.
Maximals…
-[all transform]
-[Primal] Maximize!
[jets blast]
[shots whizzing]
[grunts]
-[blades swish]
-[Primal growls]
[loud crash]
[blades swish]
[Rhinox grunts]
[all grunting]
[Cheetor grunts]
Get these animals off my bridge!
-[Primal grunts]
-[blades clang]
-[clang]
-With pleasure, Lord Megatron.
-[grunts] Ha!
-[Primal] Argh!
[rapid firing]
If I think for even one cycle
you're betraying us…
Huh!
[Blackarachnia grunts]
…I'll rip all eight of your legs off!
Careful. I like it rough.
[both grunting]
[straining]
So, this is what you've been reduced to -
a servant of Galvatron!
He won't ever exist
now that I have saved Megatron.
Your affections have blinded you!
-[clang]
-[Predacon Megatron grunts]
It doesn't matter.
Whoever he is, he's just using you!
[Predacon Megatron grunts]
[Primal] The moment you become a problem,
he'll kill you!
Now, why would little old me
ever become a problem
for Lord Megatron? [yells]
-[alarm blaring]
-You sure this is it?
[Blackarachnia] Yes, I'm sure.
Now, shut up! I have to concentrate.
-[thuds]
-You're gonna need to hurry up!
[clang]
Besides… who are you to judge me?
You sided with Nemesis.
-How do you know he's not using you?
-[Primal growls]
Because this is my choice.
-[grunts]
-[Predacon Megatron groans]
[Ravage snarls]
[Cheetor grunts]
[growling]
[Ravage snarls]
-[Tigatron growls]
-[Ravage snarls]
-[footsteps approach quickly]
-[Megatron grunts]
-[Tigatron] Argh!
-[Megatron yells]
-[Cheetor roars]
-Soundwave, keep firing!
[Primal] Rhinox! The controls!
[monitor trills]
[Megatron groans]
Argh!
[growls]
[Wheeljack]
Drastic times call for drastic measures.
-We just need one more push!
-I know!
I know! Diverting power to the engines!
Whatever you're going to do,
do it now!
[engines blast]
-[powers down]
-[Ratchet] The engines are down!
Even auxiliary systems.
-[clang]
-[Prime grunts] Maintain shield integrity!
[grunts] We're trying,
but Teletraan is fighting us.
[Allspark clanks]
[groans]
[Maximals pant and groan]
[Primal groans]
Did you really think
you could stand against
the fury of both Megatrons?
[alarm beeping]
[Soundwave] I am reading
a massive energy spike inside the Ark.
[grunts]
-Their shields are--
-[Soundwave] Still at 12%.
Then keep firing!
One more blast and it'll finally be over.
[Primal groans]
[strained] No.
Any time now, spider!
Just keep shooting, birdie.
[Airazor yells]
[Blackarachnia grunts]
Got it!
[Airazor yells]
[all grunting]
Fire at will!
Negative. Weapons are down.
-What?
-[Primal coughing chuckle]
What have you done?
Lower the boarding ramp.
-[Soundwave] But our weapons…
-[ramp clanks]
[whirring]
[thud]
I am a weapon.
[growls softly]
[transforms]
[grunts]
-[blast]
-[metal creaking]
-[electricity crackles]
-[Ratchet] Not again. Shields at 9%!
-What is firing on us?
Autobots…
[sighs]
…abandon ship.
[Bumblebee] Uh… Where'd the door go?
-[shots fire]
-[Megatron grunts]
[grunts]
Starscream, you idiot! [growls]
-[distant explosions]
-You have to stop!
This is just what he wants!
Death, death and more death!
[Megatron growls]
[growling softly]
Your death at the very least.
[Starscream gasping]
But you said it yourself.
"If only I could go back, work together."
That's what he's afraid of.
[grunts] That's why he had to enslave you!
[Megatron, seething] Enslaved?
-[growls] My life is my own!
-[Starscream, choking chuckle]
[pants] That's right.
That's exactly what you said.
Oh…
Didn't anyone tell you?
[pants] You…
You are…
Galvatron.
[growls]
[softly] No.
[Starscream] It's true!
You are reborn into servitude!
I heard the whole thing.
[gasps]
Then he spoke to me,
your master.
He thinks I'll just let this all happen.
He thinks I'm weak,
but I'm not.
I'm not just another victim!
I can do what has to be done. I--
You can't do anything right, Starscream!
I…
can fly.
[grunts] Ah!
[Megatron grunts]
[screams]
[thunder cracking]
[rumbling whir]
[engines rev]
[Predacon Megatron] Wh…
What is it?
[Primal] A miracle.
-[metal creaking]
-[shattering]
-[rumbling]
-[Blackarachnia grunts]
[screams]
-[Airazor grunting]
-[Blackarachnia groans]
[grunts]
My hero!
[Wheeljack] Teletraan? Is that you?
[Teletraan] Hello, Wheeljack.
What did you do to yourself, friend?
[Teletraan] Our time in the Dead Universe
gave me visions of multiple futures,
which included schematics
for this transformation.
I knew, at this point in time,
I would have to become what I am now.
Thus I dedicated all power reserves
to the necessary modifications.
Still, I lacked--
[laughs] It wasn't until the Allspark
gave you a final power boost?
[laughing]
Then, it is over.
[instrumental music plays]
[music fades out]
-[Prime] Prepare… for takeoff.
-[footsteps]
[Predacon Megatron growls]
[Soundwave grunts]
[Prime] Once again, I am in your debt.
Without the Maximals,
Megatron would have surely destroyed us.
Well, without you,
I would have never had the chance
to take my crew home.
[Prime] Hmm.
It… will not be the same Cybertron
you are from.
[Primal] I know.
We're orphans, out of time now.
It's uncharted territory,
purely theoretical.
Rhinox says we may vanish at any moment.
But, if we don't…
I would like to see
the Cybertron you described.
I would like that, too.
It will take work.
We will have to rebuild.
Then we will rebuild together as one.
Prime…
I should warn you about Nemesis.
Later, when we will have more time.
Right now, the Allspark needs us.
Teletraan-1…
set course for Cybertron.
[dramatic music plays]
[Starscream] No. No. [gasps]
[gasping anxiously]
No, no, no!
No, no, no, no!
[Blackarachnia] Starscream?
-[Hound] Huh? [gasps]
-[Blackarachnia gasps]
[Starscream wails]
We have to stop the ship!
We can't go back to Cybertron.
That's what he wants!
[muttering] No, no, no.
No!
[screams] No!
[theme music plays]
[music fades out]